- Now let's use the next annotation which is @RequestBody.
We have used @ResponseBody,
with the @Controller annotation before.
Now let us quickly look at @RequestBody.
This is very similar to the @ModelAttribute annotation
that we have used in our MVC controllers.
So if you can recall that entire discussion,
we said that when a form gets submitted,
all the values on the form should be
bound to a Java object so that it is
available for further processing.
A very similar task is going to be done by RequestBody.
When you call your RESTful services and
pass data in the form of, let's say JSON,
then that JSON can be converted to a Java object
using the @RequestBody annotation.
So let's find out how to do that.
Let's go to the IDE.
Let's make another controller class now.
Let's say
LoginRestController.
And I'm going to annotate this with REST controller now.
And let's say this has got a PostMapping this time
because it is a login flow.
Let's give it a URL pattern so say
/hplus/rest/
loginuser maybe
and follow this with a method.
And now this time,
it is going to return again a response entity
and what are we going to say?
Let's say the method name is loginuser
and to this method we are now going to annotate @RequestBody
and this one should map to our login form.
We already have a login bean.
Just let's go and recap quickly.
This is the login bean that we had created
way before in our MVC demos and
we had username and password.
We are just going to reuse that bean
inside the login REST controller.
So we are saying that,
whenever a request comes for this particular method,
then the incoming request body is supposed to be
converted to this object.
That is what this means.
Next, let's just go ahead and
make sure that we get the data correctly.
So I'm just going to say login.getUsername
along with the password.
And then, we are going to autowire the user repository.
We already have that in place.
So on line 11, I'm going to just say
That's line 12
So @Autowired and say private UserRepository
We need this to call any methods
on a user table of the database.
So let's come down there and say,
User bean
getting assigned to UserRepository
dot
searchByName
And this name will be given an argument
of login.getUsername,
that's the one we are getting from the request.
So once this happens,
then we can say if
user is null,
so what is it that we have to do here?
If the user is null,
which means the user was never found in the system.
And in that case, what we could do is,
we say return
ResponseEntity
dot
status
404 maybe,
and just invoke build so that it builds this object for you
and returns it as a part of the body.
So this time we have used ResponseEntity
in order to make sure that we give the
correct information to the client,
telling her that Yes, the user was not found!
Instead of just saying OK and giving an empty body.
That was the purpose of ResponseEntity object.
Let's do another thing.
Let's come down here and say,
If user.getUsername()
.equals
(login.getUsername())
and let's put another condition saying,
let's put another condition on the password.
Say, user.getPassword()
.equals(login.getPassword())
So what this essentially means is
that the credentials matched correctly
from the request body to the database.
So we tried to query the user on line 21
and we are trying to verify if the user that we got
has exactly the same credentials as the one
that was coming in the incoming request.
So if that is the case,
then what should we do?
This is an OK operation.
So you can just go ahead and say return new ResponseEntity
This one can have HTTP status
as OK.
If, however, that is not the case,
then we have a problem. Right?
It essentially means that the incoming request
did have a username which existed in the database.
However the password did not match.
So the credentials went wrong,
which means that it is an invalid username
or password case.
So what we're going to do for that is,
we're going to throw an exception.
We'll see rest of the parts in the next demo.